---
description: This page describes how to add AWS S3 as a source to Census.
---

# S3

Census lets you select CSV files stored in AWS S3 as a source for your syncs. Here's how it works:

1. You give Census the name of an S3 bucket you control and a
   [prefix](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/using-prefixes.html)
   within that bucket to scan for objects.
2. You grant Census access to read data from your bucket (see our authentication
   instructions below).
3. When a sync starts, Census looks for the most-recently-modified object in the
   bucket matching the configured prefix. This must be a CSV file with a header
   row. Census compares this data in this CSV to the previously synced data and
   sends any changes to the destination of your choice, based on your configured
   sync behavior
   
This will walk you through creating a new S3 source and using it to sync data.

### Creating an S3 Connection in Census

Census uses role-based authentication to connect to your bucket, as [recommended
by
AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_common-scenarios_third-party.html).
This involves a three-step "handshake" between your AWS account and Census.

{% hint style="info" %}

These examples use the AWS CLI, but you can use the AWS Console, API, Terraform,
or other tools instead to accomplish the same setup tasks.

{% endhint %}

1. Get your AWS Account ID; you'll use this to create a placeholder
   AssumeRolePolicy that we will replace with the Census AWS Account ID in a
   later step:

   ```sh
   aws sts get-caller-identity
   ```

   Use the `Account` value here (a 12-digit number) in the next step.

2. Create an IAM role in your AWS account that provides read-only access to your
   S3 bucket and prefix. Throughout this example, we'll assume that your bucket
   name is `census-docs-example`, your region is `us-east-1`, and your prefix is
   `data/`:
   
   ```sh
   aws iam create-role \
     --role-name CensusReadOnlyToS3 \
     --assume-role-policy-document '{
       "Version": "2012-10-17",
       "Statement": [{
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Principal": {"AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<YOUR ACCOUNT NUMBER>:root"},
         "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
       }]
     }'
   ```
   
   This will return a JSON document containing an `Arn` for the role you just
   created - something like `"arn:aws:iam::<YOUR ACCOUNT
   NUMBER>:role/CensusReadOnlyToS3"`. Keep track of this role ARN because you
   will need it throughout the rest of the setup process.
   
3. Grant your newly-created role read-only access to your S3 bucket. We'll do
   this using an inline policy, but there are many ways to manage permissions in
   AWS IAM, so choose the appropriate technique for your organization's needs.
   
   ```sh
   aws iam put-role-policy \
     --role-name CensusReadOnlyToS3 \
     --policy-name CensusReadOnlyToS3 \
     --policy-document '{
       "Version": "2012-10-17",
       "Statement": [{
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Action": [
           "s3:ListBucket",
           "s3:GetObject",
           "s3:GetObjectVersion",
           "s3:GetBucketLocation"
         ],
         "Resource": [
           "arn:aws:s3:::census-docs-example",
           "arn:aws:s3:::census-docs-example/*"
         ]
       }]
     }'
   ```

   It's possible to further restrict this role to limit Census' access by object
   prefix, though we recommend using a dedicated bucket for sharing data with
   Census to keep roles and permissions simple.

4. Navigate to the Census [Connections
   Tab](https://app.getcensus.com/connections) and click "Add Data Source", then
   select "S3" in the menu.

5. Provide the **Region**, **Bucket Name**, **Role ARN**, and **Prefix** to
   Census, and click "Connect".
   
6. Census will generate a unique external ID that helps secure the connection
   between your role and the Census AWS account and display it on the next
   screen. Update your role to grant access to the Census AWS Account (instead
   of your own) and to require this external ID for all API calls:
   
   ```sh
   aws iam update-assume-role-policy \
     --role-name CensusReadOnlyToS3 \
     --policy-document '{
       "Version": "2012-10-17",
       "Statement": [{
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Principal": {"AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<CENSUS ACCOUNT NUMBER>:root"},
         "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
         "Condition": {"StringEquals": {"sts:ExternalId": "<CENSUS EXTERNAL ID>"}}
       }]
     }'
   ```

7. Click the "Test" button in the Census UI to verify that the connection has
   been configured successfully.

__TODO: SCREENSHOTS COMING SOON__

### Create a sync

You can now go on to create a sync from your S3 prefix to a destination app.

1. In Census, click on **Syncs** in the left menu
2. Click on **Add Sync**
3. Under connection select the name of your S3 connection
4. Since S3 doesn't operate like a traditional data warehouse, you'll see your
   prefix name repeated under the "Schema" and "Table" selection options -
   choose the default values.
5. Census will scan your S3 bucket and retreive the headers of your CSV, and use
   that to guide you through the rest of the sync configuration process.

For more detailed instructions on how to configure your sync, please read the
docs page for the destination app you want to sync data to.

## 💡Note

* In order to enable incremental syncs, Census will use Basic State Tracking to
  store an external snapshot of your source data between syncs on Census-owned
  infrastructure. [Learn more
  here](../basics/security-and-privacy#exceptions-to-censuss-temporary-data-storage-policy)
* Because S3 does not support SQL queries, you cannot create SQL, dbt, or Looker
  models on S3 sources, nor can you use S3 sources with Census Entities or
  Segments.

## 🚑 Need help connecting to S3?

[Contact us](mailto:support@getcensus.com) via support@getcensus.com or start a
conversation with us via the [in-app](https://app.getcensus.com) chat.

